.\" $Id: vmkc.man,v 1.29 2011/11/16 13:53:40 lhf Exp $
.TH VMKC 1 "$Date: 2011/11/16 13:53:40 $"
.SH NAME
vmkc \- vmk compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmkc
[
.I options
] [
.I filenames
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmkc
is the vmk compiler.
It translates programs written in the vmk programming language
into binary files containing precompiled chunks
that can be later loaded and executed.
.LP
The main advantages of precompiling chunks are:
faster loading,
protecting source code from accidental user changes,
and
off-line syntax checking.
Precompiling does not imply faster execution
because in vmk chunks are always compiled into bytecodes before being executed.
.B vmkc
simply allows those bytecodes to be saved in a file for later execution.
Precompiled chunks are not necessarily smaller than the corresponding source.
The main goal in precompiling is faster loading.
.LP
In the command line,
you can mix
text files containing vmk source and
binary files containing precompiled chunks.
.B vmkc
produces a single output file containing the combined bytecodes
for all files given.
Executing the combined file is equivalent to executing the given files.
By default,
the output file is named
.BR vmkc.out ,
but you can change this with the
.B \-o
option.
.LP
Precompiled chunks are
.I not
portable across different architectures.
Moreover,
the internal format of precompiled chunks
is likely to change when a new version of vmk is released.
Make sure you save the source files of all vmk programs that you precompile.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
produce a listing of the compiled bytecode for vmk's virtual machine.
Listing bytecodes is useful to learn about vmk's virtual machine.
If no files are given, then
.B vmkc
loads
.B vmkc.out
and lists its contents.
Use
.B \-l \-l
for a full listing.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
output to
.IR file ,
instead of the default
.BR vmkc.out .
(You can use
.B "'\-'"
for standard output,
but not on platforms that open standard output in text mode.)
The output file may be one of the given files because
all files are loaded before the output file is written.
Be careful not to overwrite precious files.
.TP
.B \-p
load files but do not generate any output file.
Used mainly for syntax checking and for testing precompiled chunks:
corrupted files will probably generate errors when loaded.
If no files are given, then
.B vmkc
loads
.B vmkc.out
and tests its contents.
No messages are displayed if the file loads without errors.
.TP
.B \-s
strip debug information before writing the output file.
This saves some space in very large chunks,
but if errors occur when running a stripped chunk,
then the error messages may not contain the full information they usually do.
In particular,
line numbers and names of own variables are lost.
.TP
.B \-v
show version information.
.TP
.B \-\-
stop handling options.
.TP
.B \-
stop handling options and process standard input.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vmk (1)
.br
The documentation at vmk.org.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages should be self explanatory.
.SH AUTHORS
R. Ierusalimschy,
L. H. de Figueiredo,
W. Celes
.\" EOF
